The following summary was done by Johannes Lorper

Design and Analysis of Intelligent Text Entry Systems with
Function Structure Models and Envelope Analysis:

For this study, an Android keyboard was implemented that included many customization options.
E.g. the display color and the integrated emojis could be set by the user.
Furthermore, the keyboard offered the possibility to share customizations with others.
In a conducted study, the authors came to the conclusion that most of their participants,
which shared a keyboard layout with another person, would also like to use the keyboard
outside of the study, because they felt a greater social connection to the "keyboard partner",
because of their shared layout adjustments.

Hummer: Text Entry by Gaze and Hum

In this study an eye tracker was used to record the users gaze on a screen.
A keyboard was visible on the screen. The autors conducted a test, in which
writing on the keyboard by focusing on the keys with the eyes got adavanced in 2 ways.
Advancement 1: The participant marked the beginning and end of words by
a short hum
Advancement 2: The participant hummed as long as he was writing 1 word. 
Advancement 2 improved the text input speed compared to the others, and the participants
reached an input speed of 20.45 words per minute on average.

FingerText: Exploring and Optimizing Performance for
Wearable, Mobile and One-Handed Typing

This study was about creating text input by touching the thumb with another finger. This should
simplify text input while walking or doing other non-static activities. For this purpose the 
device put out different letters, when the thumb is pressed together with another finger.
The letter was dependent on the finger and touching areas of the fingers. The authors tried
to distribute the areas for the respective letters as efficiently as possible.
In a study, compared to a QWERTY-style layout, there was a 10.45% improvement in word
per minute speed, as well as a 39.44% lower word error rate with their design.  
 


 
