The following summary was written by Michael Meckl:

MacKenzie and Soukoreff provide an overview of state-of-the-art mobile text
input techniques (as of 2002) while also giving a short summary of relevant
historic events in this domain and presenting different ways to evaluate such
techniques as well as providing a survey of different key- and stylus-based
input techniques [1].
They identify several important factors and trade-offs that should be considered
when designing studies for evaluating mobile text input techniques. One factor
is whether to use a text creation or a text copy task. In a text creation
task participants have to generate text by themselves or remember text that was
shown to them beforehand while in a text copy task the text is simply presented
and has to entered with the desired input technique that should be tested.
Other factors to be aware of are the knowledge level of the participant (novice or expert),
and even the type of study itself: quantitative or qualitative.
The two main quantitative metrics that should always be measured are the speed and
the accuracy with which the participant enters the text. Speed is usually measured
in words per minute (WPM) while the accuracy can be measured as the ratio of error
characters compared to all characters. As there is a trade-off between speed and
accuracy, both metrics have to be measured, otherwise the results may be skewed or
entirely wrong: if only the speed is measured one could simply enter the
text as fast as possible without paying attention to correctness.
Besides these, however, a qualitative assessment of the input technique is also
necessary (e.g. via a questionnaire) to make sure the technique has a high usability
and that users feel comfortable using it. The importance of this becomes even
clearer when looking at the history of input techniques:
The 1996 introduced Palm became a huge success compared to Apple's Newton because
of users' acceptance of Graffiti as a text input technology compared to Newton's
handwriting recognition [1].


[1] MacKenzie, I. S., & Soukoreff, R. W. (2002). Text entry for mobile computing: Models and methods, theory and practice. Human–Computer Interaction, 17(2-3), 147-198.
